---
layout: post
title: confyaml
category: post
comments: True
---

I love configurations, I love YAML and I love Python. I try every time to make my code configurable, because I think
that it makes easier for an user to run, reproduce results and adjust the code to their own needs. 

Instead of dropping random numbers on my code, I like to create a configuration file and leave everything there. For 
the pydrive project, I wanted to do everything more configurable, so I searched for some configuration libraries in 
Python, aaand... I didn't like the way some of them worked, or it wasn't using YAML, or I found them too verbose. So
I did what real programmers should do: think that all proven, reviewed and maintained open-source solutions available were garbage 
and built my own configuration manager package in Python. 

It proved to be a bit more complex that I thought it would (of course!), because since I started doing this package because
I said the other packages were garbage, mine should be better and that required some effort, unit testing and documentation.

Second problem is to find a suitable name. My idea wasn't that original as well, and while I was trying to find a unique name, I found
even more similar packages. Some ideas that were taken:

~~[https://pypi.org/project/yaml-configuration/](yaml-configuration)~~
~~[https://pypi.org/project/config-py/](config-py)~~
~~[https://pypi.org/project/configpy/](configpy)~~
~~[https://pypi.org/project/config-yaml/](config-yaml)~~
~~[https://pypi.org/project/yaml-config/](yaml-config)~~

Fortunately, I found a name which wasn't taken and transmitted the whole idea of it:

{% include repo_card.html reponame="confyaml" %}

"conf" is enough to transmit the idea of configuration, and it has yaml on the name as well. The name is also shorter than most
of other competitors, emphasizing the idea that I had since the beginning: being less verbose.

## Usage

So, let's say you have the following YAML config file:

{% highlight yaml %}
app_name: "One-million-dollar-app"
user: "barney_dinosaur"
pass: "iloveyouyouloveme"
{% endhighlight %}

In order to access your parameters, you can do this 
{% highlight python %}
from confyaml import Config

# Assumes you have a file called config.yaml
config = Config()
# But you can also pass the path of other yaml file
other_config = Config("other_config.yaml")

# Parameters can be accessed in three different ways:
print(config.user)
print(config["pass"])
print(config.get("app_name"))
# If the parameter does not exist, AttributeError will be raised

# Parameters can be set in three different ways:
config.pass = "wereahappyfamily"
config.set("user", "baby_bop")
config["app_name"] = "barney and friends"

# You can save your changes to the yaml file
config.save()
# If you pass an extra argument, it will save the yaml file on that path
config.save("new_config.yaml")
{% endhighlight %}

## Installing

Easy as:

{% highlight bash %}
pip3 install confyaml
{% endhighlight %}

Hope that this will be useful someday.
